Cpfg-lpfg players

Properly load vv objects via a browser

v Position object command like in the object manager

v Add support for endpoint-bsplines to the contour editor. Propagate this change to cpfg and lpfg

v Save as without Browser saves on the same level

v Rename object

v Copy object (in addition to copy subtree) / paste (test thoroughly)

v "Save as " should include "Browse for folder" button. Doesn't change identity.

v "Save as " changes identity of the object (Windows style), "make extension" doesn't (vlab style)
  "Save as " always saves locally (windows style). If the object was opened locally (Window style)
  default location is the sibling. If it was opened from a browser, then the default location
  is the Desktop.

v Browser doesn't redraw properly when increasing width/height

v Show all extensions command in the browser doesn't work properly

v Command as in vlab browser.

v When "make extension" changes identity select the new object in the browser. 

v Warn if a directory opened via browser does not seem to be an L-studio project (no .l files)

v When deleting an entry in the browser activate its parent (not oofs)

v Allow external text editor to be used for L-system

v Open explorer on the lab table

v Open local, remote

v Update documentation

v Allow for large files in the text editor (increased to 512 kB, works on NT/2K/XP only).

v Make sibling

v When deleting an object in the browser close it in L-studio (warn before deleting?)

v When expanding extensions show as far right as possible (same when creating extension), 
  just like in vlab browser

? Text editor options: font size not initialized properly

4 * Add dynamic menu "Make extension in --> Browser 1, Browser 2 etc. "
	(extension of the currently selected object in the given browser).
	This implies that browser have numbers
	
* Player for cpfg

* Player for lpfg

Buttons in panels cannot have duplicate names (because group identifies buttons by names/labels)
  This should be resolved in a smarter way. Currently the buttons receive consecutive numbers appended 
  to the "button" word when created. And when renaming there is a check performed against duplicate
  names.

Add text box to panels

Add "reset parameters" button to panels

Redesign and rewrite RA server protocol. Should work on the level of objects, not files. 
Every message/request should have a response (in do_paste_objects, RA_ARCHIV_BLOCKs are 
accepted without responses, this can lead to a deadlock/crash).

Gallery for multiple objects not necessarily linear

Syntax highlighting: minimum comments.

Surface gallery

Ignored files: should be imported? Compared?
